GST: Is GST helping the Indian economy for the better? 17,748.60 -106.5 44.70 3.45 FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★★ Mirae Asset Equity Savings Fund Direct - Growth 2Y Return 17.74 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★ ★★ DSP Small Cap Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 15.8 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★★ Mirae Asset Hybrid Equity Fund Direct-Growth 5Y Return 16.48 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★ ★ DSP Equity Opportunities Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 16.61 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★ ★ DSP Tax Saver Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 17.37 %
                 Invest Now English Edition Save 20% on ET Prime ET Prime Exclusive Offer ET Prime Exclusive Offer Search + Brand Solutions How they can help in wealth creation Tomorrow is different. Let's reshape it today #TougherTogether Hunt for the brightest engineers in India Mental Health Awareness Initiative › ›Policy› Is GST helping the Indian economy for the better? Is GST helping the Indian economy for the better? SECTIONS Is GST helping the Indian economy for the better? ET CONTRIBUTORS Last Updated: Aug 08, 2018, 12:43 PM IST Rate Story Share Font Size Abc Small Abc Medium Abc Large Save Print Comment Synopsis India’s first federal institution, the GST reform does away with the old multilayer arbitrary tax scheme, making it easier to administer taxes while making revenue collection more efficient. ThinkStock Photos Despite the heavy criticism, the economy seems to be picking up pace and hopefully the benefits of GST will become even more prominent. By Archit Gupta The Goods and Services Tax is a reform designed to create an ecosystem where free and fair competition can thrive. The state and centre in unison decided to pool in their resource and sovereignty to create this fiscal consolidation for the common goal of economic prosperity. India’s first federal institution, the  When state and centre have the autonomy to levy charges based on their preferences, the entire system is distorted and the movement of goods also becomes difficult. Therefore, rooting out redundancy in a tax regime is important to escape the tax on tax effect. GST has put in place simple and homogeneous tax, the spoils of which can be utilized by the state and the centre equally.
 A wide price drop across the spectrum is noticeable, something that was absent in the previous tax regime. The creation of a unified national market across the country -under the banner of GST-has increased manufacturing activities. In the recent GST council meet, the key area of focus was the cottage industry. The rates for a number of raw materials were rationalized in a bid to boost the country’s small-scale industry. In these aspects, it resonates with the  While India’s GDP did slip to 6.1 in the first quarter of the year 2017 it has bounced back to 6.3 and continues to progress. The  GST has pushed the economy one step closer to a common market i.e free movement of capital and services. Doing business now has become easier and the hassle-free movement of the goods enables smoother transport thereby plugging in the logistical inefficiencies. The introduction of a GST Network and E-Way bills has solidified the country's supply chain and put in place a structure that facilitates transparency. Now a dealer can track their shipments whether it is intrastate or interstate.
 Under GST the efficacy of  This uniquely ambitious implementation is still in its nascent stages and to evaluate its performance at this stage would be presumptive. The mechanism is still being tweaked to perfection as the amendments keep rolling in. The recent 28th GST council meet saw a range of changes implemented across the spectrum. 
 Despite the heavy criticism, the economy seems to be picking up pace and hopefully the benefits of GST will become even more prominent. A proper analysis of GST’s impact on the economy can only be done once the policy has fully taken shape. There are lot more changes yet to come, but we as a nation must take pride in where we stand today with GST. Implementing such a large scale rollout is a daunting task, one that the government has done with much dexterity. 
 The writer is Founder & CEO ClearTax (Disclaimer: The opinions expressed in this column are that of the writer. The facts and opinions expressed here do not reflect the views of  .) Read More News on (The one-stop destination for  ,  , Exports, Funding, Policy and small business management.) ETPrime stories of the day 11 mins read 9 mins read 8 mins read Subscribe to  ETPrime IN THE SPOTLIGHT Related Most Read Most Shared ET Rise Trending Terms Browse Companies: Trending Now Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it ET Verticals More from our network Other useful Links Call 1800 1200 004 (Toll Free) Company Name:  Times Internet Limited Registered Office Address:  9-10,Bahardurshah Zafar Marg, New Delhi - 110002 Corporate Identity Number:  U74999DL1999PLC135531 Customer Support Team:  care@etprime.com Grievance Officer:  Deepak Ajwani Email:  grievance.et@timesinternet.in services Follow us on: Download ET App: subscribe to our newsletter Copyright © 2021 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights:  Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Name Reason for reporting: Foul language Slanderous Inciting hatred against a certain community Others Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. X To post this comment you must Log In/Connect with: or Fill in your details: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Share this Comment: Post to Twitter Stories you might be interested in Subscribe to our ET Investment Opportunities SUBMIT 