Government plans new policy to promote electric vehicles - The Economic Times 17,711.30 -37.3 151.60 11.55 FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★★ Mirae Asset Equity Savings Fund Direct - Growth 2Y Return 17.74 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★ ★★ DSP Small Cap Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 15.8 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★★ Mirae Asset Hybrid Equity Fund Direct-Growth 5Y Return 16.48 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★ ★ DSP Equity Opportunities Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 16.61 %
                 Invest Now FEATURED FUNDS ★★★★ ★ DSP Tax Saver Direct Plan-Growth 5Y Return 17.37 %
                 Invest Now Industry English Edition Save 20% on ET Prime ET Prime Exclusive Offer ET Prime Exclusive Offer Search + Brand Solutions How they can help in wealth creation Tomorrow is different. Let's reshape it today #TougherTogether Hunt for the brightest engineers in India Mental Health Awareness Initiative › › › › Government plans new policy to promote electric vehicles Government plans new policy to promote electric vehicles SECTIONS Government plans new policy to promote electric vehicles By  ,  ET Bureau Last Updated: Aug 02, 2018, 07:42 AM IST Rate Story Share Font Size Abc Small Abc Medium Abc Large Save Print Comment Synopsis The policy, advocating minimal subsidies, is likely to be announced at a global e-mobility summit to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 7. According to the fresh proposal, the govt will first begin creating favourable ecosystems in nine polluted cities with a population of over four million, and gradually move to cities with populations of one million-plus. NEW DELHI: The government is preparing a fresh policy for promotion of  , which will be rolled out initially on a smaller scale to ensure smoother transition and better cooperation from the  , a government official said.
 The policy, advocating minimal subsidies, is likely to be announced at a global e-mobility summit to be inaugurated by Prime Minister  The government could also consider throwing a 100-day global challenge to automakers for setting up manufacturing facilities for e-vehicles, batteries and charging infrastructure in India, as reported by ET in September last year. In February this year, Union transport minister  “However, a new policy to create favourable ecosystems for transition to electric vehicles is silently being worked upon. The government has already begun consultations with industry bodies, including the Confederation of Indian Industries, FICCI and auto makers on five aspects,” the official said. These include challenges and support required for electric vehicles manufacturing, battery manufacturing, setting up charging infrastructure, promoting electric vehicles in commercial fleet and the role of renewable energy in electric mobility.
 “There is a shift in the government direction. Rather than spreading it to a pan-India basis, the government now wants to concentrate on creating pilot projects in populated and polluted cities that have a large vehicle base for easy transition. Also, the programme needs to give time to automakers,” said a source privy to the development. The timelines and the roadmap for the policy are being identified but so far the aim remains to shift one-third of the petrol and diesel vehicles to electric fleet by 2030.
 The Union cabinet is also soon expected to take a call on the 8,730-crore second phase of Faster Adoption And Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (Fame India) scheme that proposes fiscal and non-fiscal incentives to electric vehicle firms for five years. The power ministry is close to finalising a policy for electric vehicles charging infrastructure that proposes granting subsidies to PSUs for setting up a basic charging station network in big cities and highways for gaining momentum in electric vehicle sales.
 Niti Ayog, which is coordinating with various ministries, state governments and stakeholders for the e-mobility policy, will also be seeking comments from the department of heavy industries, the finance ministry, the department of science and technology, the ministry of road transport and highways and the the ministry of urban development.
 Read More News on (Catch all the  ,  .) Download  ETPrime stories of the day 8 mins read 11 mins read 9 mins read Subscribe to  ETPrime Popular in Industry Top Trending Industry Terms Most Popular News Most Popular Opinion By T K Arun By Sowmya Sivakumar By Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury Browse Companies: Trending Now Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it ET Verticals More from our network Other useful Links Call 1800 1200 004 (Toll Free) Company Name:  Times Internet Limited Registered Office Address:  9-10,Bahardurshah Zafar Marg, New Delhi - 110002 Corporate Identity Number:  U74999DL1999PLC135531 Customer Support Team:  care@etprime.com Grievance Officer:  Deepak Ajwani Email:  grievance.et@timesinternet.in services Follow us on: Download ET App: subscribe to our newsletter Copyright © 2021 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights:  Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Name Reason for reporting: Foul language Slanderous Inciting hatred against a certain community Others Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. X To post this comment you must Log In/Connect with: or Fill in your details: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Share this Comment: Post to Twitter Already an ET Prime Member?  Sign In now Continue reading with one of these options: Limited Access Free Login to get access to some exclusive stories Login Now Unlimited Access Starting @ Rs120/month Get access to exclusive stories, expert opinions & Subscribe Now Sign in to read the full article You’ve got this Prime Story as a Free Gift Choose Payment Mode & Plan - - - Subscribe Now (Credit card mandatory) You can cancel your subscription anytime - - - Subscribe Now (Pay Using Netbanking/UPI/Debit Card) Netbanking, Credit & Debit Card Subscribe with Google ₹399 /month Monthly
                	                        PLAN
                	                     Billed Amount ₹399 No Trial Period ₹399 ₹208 /month (Save 49%) Yearly
                	                        PLAN
                	                     Billed Amount ₹2,499 15 
                    	                                    Days Trial
                    	                                 + Includes DocuBay and TimesPrime Membership. ₹399 ₹150 /month (Save 63%) 2-Year
                	                        PLAN
                	                     Billed Amount ₹3,599 15 
                    	                                    Days Trial
                    	                                 + Includes DocuBay and TimesPrime Membership. Quarterly $13.99 7  Days Trial Yearly (Save 40.0%) $33.99 15  Days Trial Subscribe Now Subscribe with  Already a  Member?  Sign In now September Special Offer Get Flat 20% Off ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Why  ? Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends Clean experience with Minimal Ads Comment & Engage Exclusive invites to  Virtual Events with Industry Leaders A trusted team of  Journalists & Analysts  who can best filter signal from noise Stories you might be interested in Subscribe to our ET Investment Opportunities SUBMIT 