Electric Vehicles This Week: Centre Reduces GST On Lithium-Ion Batteries And More News & Analysis on India’s Tech & Startup Economy X X Electric Vehicles This Week: Centre Reduces GST On Lithium-Ion Batteries, Hyundai To Launch Electric SUV In India, And More Share story facebook twitter linkedin Electric Vehicles This Week: Centre Reduces GST On Lithium-Ion Batteries, Hyundai To Launch Electric SUV In India, And More Electric Vehicles This Week: Centre Reduces GST On Lithium-Ion Batteries, Hyundai To Launch Electric SUV In India, And More Inc42 Staff 26 Jul'18 8 min read Share story Whatsapp Facebook Twitter Linkedin  facebook twitter linkedin Important Developments From The World Of Electric Vehicles [20-26 July, 2018] The ministry of petroleum and natural gas (MoPNG)  on July 23 asked the Supreme Court to  ban the sale and manufacturing of Bharat Stage-VI  non-compliant in India, starting April 1, 2020. The ban, if implemented, is also expected to boost the Centre’s efforts to ensure faster adoption of electric vehicles in the country. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, the ministry said that  the ban should be implemented as the continued sale of BS-VI non-compliant vehicles “will lessen the environmental benefits to be accrued from using cleaner BS-VI fuel .” The Centre has invested $4Bn (INR 28,000 Cr) to promote the use of cleaner BS-VI fuel.  The Bharat Stage VI norms are essentially emission control standards meant to keep a check on air pollution.  Based on the European regulations (Euro norms), these standards set specifications/limits for the release of air pollutants from equipment using internal combustion engines, including vehicles. While BS IV-compliant fuel currently in use has 50 parts per million (ppm) sulphur, BS VI stipulates a low 10 ppm. India plans to jump from the BS IV to BS VI by 2020. The bench hearing the case ordered that the  ministry’s The bench was told that  Mercedes-Benz was already manufacturing BS-VI compliant  vehicles in India. Benz  recently Tata and Maruti & Mahindra are also said to be exporting BS-VI vehicles . Last week, the World Health Organization  (WHO) published a report India’s road transportation alone contributed to 87% of the total 188 MT of CO2  emitted in the country till 2010. It noted that electric vehicles are at least 3 to 3.5 times more energy efficient than traditional internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles. Let’s take a look at EV developments in our 33rd edition of Electric Vehicles This Week. Important Developments In Indian Electric Vehicle Ecosystem Centre Reduces GST On Lithium-Ion Batteries By 10% The Centre on July 23 reduced the goods and service tax (GST)  on lithium-ion batteries from 28% to 18%. “We are fine, something has been done by the government to reduce GST on lithium-ion batteries when sold separately. However, some irritants remain as the new rate is still higher than a factory-fitted battery in an EV,”  SMEV director general Sohinder Gill said . FAME II To Give A Boost To Ev Industry: Babul Supriyo Switching over from conventional ICE-based vehicles to new technologies such as electric, hybrid, and fuel cells is essential,  the minister of state for heavy industries and public enterprises, Babul Supriyo,  said . In reply to written questions in the Lok Sabha, Supriyo said that the  second phase of FAME envisages to provide a boost to the EV industry He added, “The Indian automotive industry needs to develop technologies like lithium-ion batteries, electric motors for automotive applications, and battery management systems.” RGEE To Use Lithium-ion Cells Made By CSIR To Store Solar Energy Raasi Green Earth Energy (RGEE), a solar power business of the Bengaluru-based Raasi Group, has  announced lithium-ion cells developed by scientists at the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research According to  Raasi Group’s chairman C Narasimhan , the company is planning to set up a 1GW solar energy plant, a cell manufacturing plant, and a lithium-ion battery recycling plant near Hosur in Tamil Nadu. The lithium-ion cells have been developed by scientists at CSIR’s Central Electrochemical Research Institute in Karaikudi. Hyundai To Launch Electric SUV In Select Cities In India South Korean automaker Hyundai is set to launch its electric SUV in India in the second half of 2019. The Hyundai Kona compact SUV, which made its debut at the Auto Expo 2018, will be  launched The automaker has also  signed an MoU with the Automotive Skills Development Council (ASDC) EV Developments Around The World EV, Plug-In Hybrid Cars Sale Dip In EU From Last Year Limited driving ranges and a patchy charging network have  dip registration of electric cars increased by just 33% in the six months till June this year , as compared to a 54% rise in the same period in 2017. EY partner Peter Fuss Volkswagen To Launch Electric Charger Network In Canada Canadian automaker Volkswagen has  announced The stations will include a mix of 150-KW and 350-KW fast chargers, along with some Level 2 chargers that will support existing electric cars that don’t have fast charging capacity. The 350-KW fast chargers are expected to  recharge a 300-mile electric car to 80% Volkswagen group president and CEO Daniel Weissland Audi To Produce Electric Engines For E-Tron At Hungarian Plant German automaker Audi has launched the  serial  Audi, which also makes cars in Hungary,  manufactured a total of more than 1.965 Mn engines China Revises Subsidies To Grow EV Battery Market China’s electric vehicles industry is poised for tremendous growth. The government is  planning Mark Newman, Bernstein’s lead global analyst for batteries, energy storage, and electric vehicles , said. “This has been a heavily subsidised market in which the (China) government has thrown money at everything and everybody that wants to give it a try.”  The China government aims to promote the development of longer-range EVs, requiring larger batteries with a higher energy density, which are much more complex to develop and mass produce. It has built massive new battery capacity in recent years “Now they’re trying to wean them off, and you’re starting to see who is a worthy battery maker that can actually survive,” added Newman. LG Chem To Build EV Battery Plant in China South Korea-based LG Chem plans to  invest Note: We at Inc42 take our ethics very seriously. More information about it can be found  facebook twitter whatsapp Featured Stories 30 Sep'21 2 min read BrandLabs is the brand marketing arm of Inc42 Media. With a team of journalists & analysts, and 4 years of extensive regional editorial expertise, we cover the country’s startups like no other. 28 Sep'21 9 min read 30 Sep'21 6 min read 10 Sep'21 3 min read 30 Sep'21 3 min read 03 Aug'21 3 min read BrandLabs is the brand marketing arm of Inc42 Media. With a team of journalists & analysts, and 4 years of extensive regional editorial expertise, we cover the country’s startups like no other. 28 Sep'21 5 min read 16 Aug'21 3 min read 30 Sep'21 2 min read Trending On Inc42 29 Sep'21 2 min read 29 Sep'21 3 min read 29 Sep'21 3 min read Inc42 Plus Member Exclusive 25 Sep'21 8 min read 18 Sep'21 8 min read 11 Sep'21 10 min read Inc42 Shots 08 Jan'21 0 min read 07 Jan'21 0 min read 05 Jan'21 0 min read 