Impact Of Demonetisation On GDP, Jobs, And Indian Economy हिन्दी This post has been self-published on Youth Ki Awaaz by Angad Kumar. Just like them, anyone can publish on Youth Ki Awaaz.  1.5 Million Jobs Lost, GDP At A Low: The State Of The Indian Economy After Demonetisation Demonetisation is going to be a landmark in the history of the Indian  e conomy. It was an experience which might create fear in the minds of the people who indulge in illegal activities like tax evasion or money laundering of any kind. On November 8, 2016, the Indian government declared that the 500 and 1000 rupee notes will be stripped of their status as legal tender effective from midnight. These notes accounted for 86 percent of the country’s cash supply by value. Citizens were given time till December 31, 2016 to deposit their old currency notes and exchange them for the new currency notes of rupee 500 and 2000. The government’s aim was to  When a currency note of a particular denomination ceases to be a legal tender, it is termed as demonetisation. Legal tender refers to money which can be legally used to make payments of debts or other obligations. A creditor is obliged by law to receive such money in payment of due debt to him. The term demonetisation is not new to the Indian economy. The highest denomination note  The latest round of demonetisation  has undoubtedly affected the common public and bankers. It has had many short term effects which are visible. The long term effects are yet to be experienced and felt. Impact Of Demonetisation On The Indian Economy On Gross Domestic Product (GDP):  The Indian economy is a cash-driven economy and demonetisation has largely affected its growth. The GDP growth rate of 8.01% in 2015-2016 fell to 7.11% in 2016-2017 after demonetisation. This was largely due to less availability of cash in cash-intensive industries like manufacturing and construction. It has also adversely impacted the primary function of banks to issue loans and has put pressure on them as current account holders demand0 large sums of cash. On Daily Wage Workers: On Small Scale Industries: Businesses like the textile industry, salons, restaurants, and seasonal businesses are low capital enterprises and work on the basis of liquidity preference. Demonetisation gravely impacted their revenue collection and threatened their existence to an extent. On Black Money: On the General Economic Situation: On Inflation:  The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) considers the Wholesale price index (WPI) and the Consumer Price Index (CPI) to measure inflation. Demonetisation is expected to reduce inflation as consumers have cut down on spending and aggregate demand has considerably fallen. According to government  , the official WPI for  ‘All Commodities’ (Base: 2004-05=100) for the month of December, 2016 declined by 0.2 percent to 182.8 (provisional) from 183.1 (provisional) for the previous month. The index started rising during the month of January and  On Terror Funding: On Political Parties:  Many Political Parties use large amounts of undeclared cash to campaign for elections and meet other requirements. Due to Demonetisation such acts might get restricted to an extent and parties will have to formulate new strategies. Towards a Digital Economy: Quantitative Analysis Of The Impact Of Demonetisation On The Indian Economy As per the  As per the  Sectors in the economy such as Construction, Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing which employ a large number of daily wage workers and have liquidity preference witnessed a decline in growth. Agriculture grew by 2.3% in Q1 of 2017-18 as compared to 2.5% in Q1 of 2016-17, Construction grew at a rate of 2.3% in Q1 of 2017-18 and witnessed a drop of 0.2% since the Q1 of 2016-17. Manufacturing, which is the most important indicator of economic growth and employment has grown at a very slow rate post demonetisation. It grew by only 1.2% in Q1 of 2017-18 as compared to a massive growth of 10.7% in Q1 of 2016-17. Conclusion Demonetisation has been praised as well as criticised on various grounds. There has been a lot of opposition regarding the implementation of this policy. In the short run, there have been problems related to liquidity crunch, unemployment, loss of growth momentum, and a temporary halt to major economic activities. All this is evident from the data provided by the RBI. The long term effects of Demonetisation are yet to be ascertained. It is expected that it can improve the Indian economy in the long run by increasing tax compliance, financial inclusion, consequently improving the state of the economy. It can boost the GDP by increasing the availability of funds for lending and also by reducing transaction costs if the economy moves to digital modes of payments. Note: A version of this article was first published  . Featured image source:  More from Angad Kumar Similar Posts By shahnawaz alam By JYOTI SINGH By Naveen ,Sowmiyanarayanan Take it one notch up Are you a young changemaker, wanting to use the power of social media for social good? © YKA Media Pvt. Ltd. × Wondering what to write about? Here are some topics to get you started “Every 15 Minutes, A Crime Is Committed Against A Dalit Person” Will We Find A ‘Cure’ For Caste-Based Violence?  The Darker Side Of The System: What Do You Think Of Police Brutality In India?  What Is One Movie Or Tv Show That You Can’t Stop Thinking About?  How Do We Begin Dismantling Locker Rooms That Carry On The Old Tradition Of Gendered Abuse?  What Lessons Have You Learnt During This Lockdown.  Share your details to download the report. Name Email HP We promise not to spam or send irrelevant information. Share your details to download the report. Name Email HP We promise not to spam or send irrelevant information. An ambassador and trained facilitator under Eco Femme (a social enterprise working towards menstrual health in south India), Sanjina is also an active member of the MHM Collective- India and Menstrual Health Alliance- India. She has conducted Menstrual Health sessions in multiple government schools adopted by Rotary District 3240 as part of their WinS project in rural Bengal. She has also delivered training of trainers on SRHR, gender, sexuality and Menstruation for Tomorrow’s Foundation, Vikramshila Education Resource Society, Nirdhan trust and Micro Finance, Tollygunj Women In Need, Paint It Red in Kolkata. Now as an MH Fellow with YKA, she’s expanding her impressive scope of work further by launching a campaign to facilitate the process of ensuring better menstrual health and SRH services for women residing in correctional homes in West Bengal. The campaign will entail an independent study to take stalk of the present conditions of MHM in correctional homes across the state and use its findings to build public support and political will to take the necessary action.  Saurabh has been associated with YKA as a user and has consistently been writing on the issue MHM and its intersectionality with other issues in the society. Now as an MHM Fellow with YKA, he’s launched the Right to Period campaign, which aims to ensure proper execution of MHM guidelines in Delhi’s schools. The long-term aim of the campaign is to develop an open culture where menstruation is not treated as a taboo. The campaign also seeks to hold the schools accountable for their responsibilities as an important component in the implementation of MHM policies by making adequate sanitation infrastructure and knowledge of MHM available in school premises. Read more about his campaign. Harshita is a psychologist and works to support people with mental health issues, particularly adolescents who are survivors of violence. Associated with the Azadi Foundation in UP, Harshita became an MHM Fellow with YKA, with the aim of promoting better menstrual health. Her campaign #MeriMarzi aims to promote menstrual health and wellness, hygiene and facilities for female sex workers in UP. She says,  “Knowledge about natural body processes is a very basic human right. And for individuals whose occupation is providing sexual services, it becomes even more important.” Meri Marzi aims to ensure sensitised, non-discriminatory health workers for the needs of female sex workers in the Suraksha Clinics under the UPSACS (Uttar Pradesh State AIDS Control Society) program by creating more dialogues and garnering public support for the cause of sex workers’ menstrual rights. The campaign will also ensure interventions with sex workers to clear misconceptions around overall hygiene management to ensure that results flow both ways. Read more about her campaign. MH Fellow Sabna comes with significant experience working with a range of development issues. A co-founder of Project Sakhi Saheli, which aims to combat period poverty and break menstrual taboos, Sabna has, in the past, worked on the issue of menstruation in urban slums of Delhi with women and adolescent girls. She and her team also released MenstraBook, with menstrastories and organised Menstra Tlk in the Delhi School of Social Work to create more conversations on menstruation. With YKA MHM Fellow Vineet, Sabna launched Menstratalk, a campaign that aims to put an end to period poverty and smash menstrual taboos in society. As a start, the campaign aims to begin conversations on menstrual health with five hundred adolescents and youth in Delhi through offline platforms, and through this community mobilise support to create Period Friendly Institutions out of educational institutes in the city. Read more about her campaign.  A student from Delhi School of Social work, Vineet is a part of Project Sakhi Saheli, an initiative by the students of Delhi school of Social Work to create awareness on Menstrual Health and combat Period Poverty. Along with MHM Action Fellow Sabna, Vineet launched Menstratalk, a campaign that aims to put an end to period poverty and smash menstrual taboos in society. As a start, the campaign aims to begin conversations on menstrual health with five hundred adolescents and youth in Delhi through offline platforms, and through this community mobilise support to create Period Friendly Institutions out of educational institutes in the city. Find out more about the campaign here.  A native of Bhagalpur district – Bihar, Shalini Jha believes in equal rights for all genders and wants to work for a gender-equal and just society. In the past she’s had a year-long association as a community leader with Haiyya: Organise for Action’s Health Over Stigma campaign. She’s pursuing a Master’s in Literature with Ambedkar University, Delhi and as an MHM Fellow with YKA, recently launched ‘Project अल्हड़ (Alharh)’. She says,  “Bihar is ranked the lowest in India’s SDG Index 2019 for India. Hygienic and comfortable menstruation is a basic human right and sustainable development cannot be ensured if menstruators are deprived of their basic rights.”  Project अल्हड़ (Alharh) aims to create a robust sensitised community in Bhagalpur to collectively spread awareness, break the taboo, debunk myths and initiate fearless conversations around menstruation. The campaign aims to reach at least 6000 adolescent girls from government and private schools in Baghalpur district in 2020. Read more about the campaign here.  A psychologist and co-founder of a mental health NGO called Customize Cognition, Ritika forayed into the space of menstrual health and hygiene, sexual and reproductive healthcare and rights and gender equality as an MHM Fellow with YKA. She says,  “The experience of working on MHM/SRHR and gender equality has been an enriching and eye-opening experience. I have learned what’s beneath the surface of the issue, be it awareness, lack of resources or disregard for trans men, who also menstruate.” The Transmen-ses campaign aims to tackle the issue of silence and disregard for trans men’s menstruation needs, by mobilising gender sensitive health professionals and gender neutral restrooms in Lucknow. Read more about the campaign here.  A Computer Science engineer by education, Nitisha started her career in the corporate sector, before realising she wanted to work in the development and social justice space. Since then, she has worked with Teach For India and Care India and is from the founding batch of Indian School of Development Management (ISDM), a one of its kind organisation creating leaders for the development sector through its experiential learning post graduate program. As a Youth Ki Awaaz Menstrual Health Fellow, Nitisha has started Let’s Talk Period, a campaign to mobilise young people to switch to sustainable period products. She says,  “80 lakh women in Delhi use non-biodegradable sanitary products, generate 3000 tonnes of menstrual waste, that takes 500-800 years to decompose; which in turn contributes to the health issues of all menstruators, increased burden of waste management on the city and harmful living environment for all citizens.  Let’s Talk Period aims to change this by Mobilising young people between the age of 18-35 to become ‘Eco-Period Champions’ by making the switch to a sustainable menstrual alternative and becoming advocates for the project All existing and upcoming public institutions (pink toilets, washrooms, schools, colleges, government offices, government buildings) across East Delhi to have affordable provisions for sustainable menstrual product options Find out more about her campaign here.  Share your details to download the report. Name Email HP We promise not to spam or send irrelevant information. Loading… Loading… A former Assistant Secretary with the Ministry of Women and Child Development in West Bengal for three months, Lakshmi Bhavya has been championing the cause of menstrual hygiene in her district. By associating herself with the Lalana Campaign, a holistic menstrual hygiene awareness campaign which is conducted by the Anahat NGO, Lakshmi has been slowly breaking taboos when it comes to periods and menstrual hygiene. A Gender Rights Activist working with the tribal and marginalized communities in india, Srilekha is a PhD scholar working on understanding body and sexuality among tribal girls, to fill the gaps in research around indigenous women and their stories. Srilekha has worked extensively at the grassroots level with community based organisations, through several advocacy initiatives around Gender, Mental Health, Menstrual Hygiene and Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights (SRHR) for the indigenous in Jharkhand, over the last 6 years.  Srilekha has also contributed to sustainable livelihood projects and legal aid programs for survivors of sex trafficking. She has been conducting research based programs on maternal health, mental health, gender based violence, sex and sexuality. Her interest lies in conducting workshops for young people on life skills, feminism, gender and sexuality, trauma, resilience and interpersonal relationships. A Guwahati-based college student pursuing her Masters in Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Bidisha started the #BleedwithDignity campaign on the technology platform Change.org, demanding that the Government of Assam install Bidisha was selected in Change.org’s flagship program ‘She Creates Change’ having run successful online advocacy ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Sign up for the Youth Ki Awaaz Prime Ministerial Brief below State/UT Andhra Pradesh Arunachal Pradesh Assam Bihar Chandigarh (UT) Chhattisgarh Dadra and Nagar Haveli (UT) Daman and Diu (UT) Delhi (NCT) Goa Gujarat Haryana Himachal Pradesh Jammu and Kashmir Jharkhand Karnataka Kerala Lakshadweep (UT) Madhya Pradesh Maharashtra Manipur Meghalaya Mizoram Nagaland Odisha Puducherry (UT) Punjab Rajasthan Sikkim Tamil Nadu Telangana Tripura Uttarakhand Uttar Pradesh West Bengal Preferred Language english hindi Subscribe  Loading… Loading… 